1. What is Python?
Answer: Python is a high-level, interpreted programming language known for its simplicity, readability, and flexibility. It supports multiple programming paradigms, such as object-oriented, procedural, and functional programming.

2. What are Python's key features?
Answer: Key features include:

Easy to learn and use
Interpreted language
Dynamically typed
Object-oriented
Extensive standard libraries
Cross-platform compatibility
3. What is PEP 8?
Answer: PEP 8 is the style guide for Python code, providing conventions on writing clean and readable code, such as indentation, naming conventions, and line length.

4. What is the difference between Python 2 and Python 3?
Answer: Python 3 is the future of the language, whereas Python 2 is outdated and no longer supported. Key differences include:

print is a function in Python 3 (print()), whereas it was a statement in Python 2.
Integer division returns float in Python 3, but it returns integer in Python 2.
Unicode strings are default in Python 3.
5. What is the difference between list and tuple in Python?
Answer: A list is mutable (can be modified), whereas a tuple is immutable (cannot be modified after creation). Lists are created with square brackets, and tuples are created with parentheses.

6. What is a dictionary in Python?
Answer: A dictionary is an unordered collection of key-value pairs. It is mutable and allows for fast lookups, insertions, and deletions.

7. What are Python’s built-in data types?
Answer: Python’s built-in data types include:

Integers (int)
Floating-point numbers (float)
Strings (str)
Lists (list)
Tuples (tuple)
Dictionaries (dict)
Sets (set)
Boolean (bool)
8. What are Python decorators?
Answer: A decorator is a function that takes another function as an argument and extends or alters its behavior without modifying its structure. It’s commonly used in web frameworks like Flask or Django.

9. Explain Python's memory management.
Answer: Python uses automatic memory management with garbage collection. Objects are allocated in memory, and Python uses reference counting to keep track of objects. The garbage collector frees up memory when objects are no longer in use.

10. What is a lambda function in Python?
Answer: A lambda function is a small anonymous function defined using the lambda keyword. It can take any number of arguments, but can only have one expression.

11. What is the purpose of the self keyword in Python?
Answer: The self keyword refers to the instance of the class and is used to access instance variables and methods within a class. It is a convention used in instance methods.

12. What are Python’s built-in functions?
Answer: Some common built-in functions include:

len()
max()
min()
sum()
abs()
sorted()
type()
range()
13. What is list comprehension in Python?
Answer: List comprehension is a concise way to create lists in Python by applying an expression to each element in an iterable and optionally filtering elements using a condition.

14. What is the difference between del, remove(), and pop() in Python?
Answer:

del removes an element by index or deletes the entire list.
remove() removes the first occurrence of a value.
pop() removes and returns the element at the specified index (default is the last element).
15. Explain the concept of inheritance in Python.
Answer: Inheritance allows a class to inherit attributes and methods from another class. The child class can override or extend the functionality of the parent class.

16. What are Python generators?
Answer: A generator is a function that returns an iterable set of items one at a time, using the yield keyword. It is memory-efficient and used for working with large datasets.

17. What is the difference between is and == in Python?
Answer:

is checks if two variables refer to the same object in memory.
== checks if the values of two objects are equal.
18. What are Python modules and packages?
Answer: A module is a file containing Python definitions and statements, while a package is a collection of related modules. Both allow you to organize and reuse code.

19. Explain Python's exception handling.
Answer: Python provides the try, except, else, and finally blocks to handle exceptions. try block runs code, except handles exceptions, else runs code if no exception occurs, and finally executes code after the try-except block.

20. What is the with statement in Python?
Answer: The with statement is used to wrap the execution of a block of code, ensuring that resources are properly managed, such as file handling, by automatically handling setup and cleanup.

21. What are Python’s file handling modes?
Answer: Common file modes include:

'r': Read
'w': Write
'a': Append
'b': Binary mode
22. What are the differences between deepcopy() and copy()?
Answer:

copy() creates a shallow copy, copying the reference of nested objects.
deepcopy() creates a deep copy, recursively copying all nested objects.
23. What are Python's built-in data structures?
Answer: Lists, Tuples, Sets, and Dictionaries are Python’s built-in data structures.

24. What are Python’s key methods for manipulating strings?
Answer: Some key methods include:

lower(), upper()
split(), join()
replace(), strip()
find(), index()
25. What are Python's key methods for working with lists?
Answer:

append(), extend()
pop(), remove()
sort(), reverse()
index(), insert()
26. What is the purpose of global and nonlocal keywords in Python?
Answer:

global allows access to a variable outside the current function's scope.
nonlocal allows you to modify a variable in the nearest enclosing scope.
27. What is the purpose of the assert keyword in Python?
Answer: The assert keyword is used for debugging purposes. It tests if a condition is true, and if it is not, it raises an AssertionError.

28. What is a try and except block in Python?
Answer: A try block contains the code that might throw an exception, while the except block catches the exception and handles it.

29. What is an iter() function in Python?
Answer: The iter() function is used to return an iterator object from an iterable, enabling iteration through its elements.

30. What is the difference between range() and xrange()?
Answer: xrange() is available only in Python 2 and returns an iterator. In Python 3, range() behaves like xrange(), returning an iterator instead of a list.

31. What is the use of pass statement in Python?
Answer: The pass statement is a placeholder used when a statement is required syntactically, but you don’t want to execute any code.

32. What is a class variable in Python?
Answer: A class variable is a variable that is shared by all instances of the class. It is defined within the class and not inside the __init__() method.

33. What is an instance variable in Python?
Answer: An instance variable is a variable bound to a particular instance of a class and can have different values for different instances.

34. What are Python's functional programming features?
Answer: Functional programming features in Python include:

First-class functions
Lambda functions
Map, filter, and reduce functions
List comprehensions
35. What is a Python set?
Answer: A set is an unordered collection of unique elements. It does not allow duplicates and supports operations like union, intersection, and difference.

36. How does Python handle type conversion?
Answer: Python provides functions like int(), float(), str(), and list() for converting between types.

37. What are Python's standard libraries?
Answer: Python's standard libraries include modules for working with files, regular expressions, dates and times, JSON, CSV, math, and more.

38. What is the difference between classmethod() and staticmethod()?
Answer:

classmethod() binds the method to the class rather than the instance.
staticmethod() doesn't require access to either the class or instance and behaves like a regular function.
39. What is args and kwargs in Python?
Answer:

*args allows passing a variable number of positional arguments.
**kwargs allows passing a variable number of keyword arguments.
40. How can you prevent a class from being inherited in Python?
Answer: You can prevent a class from being inherited by using the final keyword from the typing module (available in Python 3.8 and later).

41. What is a method resolution order (MRO) in Python?
Answer: The MRO is the order in which Python looks for a method in a class hierarchy. It is defined by the C3 linearization algorithm.

42. What is async and await in Python?
Answer: async defines a coroutine, and await is used to pause the coroutine until the result is available, allowing asynchronous programming.

43. What are the types of inheritance in Python?
Answer: Types of inheritance include:

Single Inheritance
Multiple Inheritance
Multilevel Inheritance
Hierarchical Inheritance
44. How to create a virtual environment in Python?
Answer: You can create a virtual environment using the following command:

nginx
Copy
python -m venv myenv
45. What is the difference between __str__() and __repr__() methods in Python?
Answer:

__str__() is for creating a user-friendly string representation of an object.
__repr__() is for creating an official string representation, useful for debugging.
46. What is the use of __init__() method in Python?
Answer: The __init__() method is a constructor used to initialize a newly created object of a class.

47. What is a static method in Python?
Answer: A static method is a method that does not operate on an instance or class. It behaves like a normal function but belongs to the class's namespace.

48. How does Python handle concurrency?
Answer: Python handles concurrency with the help of threading, multiprocessing, and asyncio modules for executing tasks concurrently.

49. What is the difference between break and continue in Python?
Answer:

break exits the loop completely.
continue skips the current iteration and moves to the next one.
50. What are Python’s standard libraries for web development?
Answer: Some popular libraries for web development include Flask, Django, and Pyramid.

